# README

This README would normally document whatever steps are necessary to get the
application up and running.

Things you may want to cover:

* Ruby version

* System dependencies

* Configuration

* Database creation

* Database initialization

* How to run the test suite

* Services (job queues, cache servers, search engines, etc.)

* Deployment instructions

* ...


# T2A2 - Marketplace Project - Australian Powerboat Trader

[Link to live site](https://whispering-refuge-44028.herokuapp.com/)

[Link to GitHub repo](https://github.com/Sonny949/SonnyPetersonT2A2)

## Instructions for accessing app Locally

Navigate to the folder of your choice in the command line and run:

`git clone https://github.com/Sonny949/SonnyPetersonT2A2.git`

Then install gems (install bundler if you haven't already):

`bundle install`

Start Mailcatcher:

`mailcatcher`

Create database then initialize:

`rails db:create`
`rails db:setup`

Start server: 

`rails s`

It should now be safe to navigate to the localhost server:

[localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/)

You will also need to open Mailcatcher to confirm the accounts generated by the seed file:

[Mailcatcher](http://127.0.0.1:1080/)

If using payments:

If using payments, to get app functionality in a local environment, run:

`ultrahook stripe 3000`

To get functionality in the production environment, run:

`ultrahook stripe https://whispering-refuge-44028.herokuapp.com/`

**The accounts in the seed file are the same accounts you will need to use to access the live site. If you wish to make your own account you need to let me know so I can add your e-mail to the accepted e-mails list on mailgun, as it is in a test state.**

## Problem To Solve

There is a large gap in the marketplace where Race boats are sold. The only place you will really find a dedicated space to sell race boats and parts is on Facebook or in the back of racing newsletters. Although the Facebook marketplace is a viable option, there exists room for a premium site dedicated to the sale of Race boats and relating spares in Australia. Being a part of the powerboat racing community for many years, this has been a problem I've seen first hand as, if you're looking for something specific it may be necessary to scour many sites, magazines and newsletters to find something that you need/want. This app proposes a solution to the problem by being a dedicated online space for all things powerboat racing. I have included racing news as well in the aim to be a hub of information to the powerboat community. The aim of the project is to provide **one** solution when a prospective client is looking for racing spares/Race boats, or information regarding powerboat racing.

## Why is this a problem?

This problem in the marketplace has come about mostly due to the esoteric nature of the sport and its participants. It is a very tight-knit community and, while there is a lot of money involved in this sport (race boats can be worth hundreds of thousands of dollars, sometimes in the range of millions) a lot of the information and sales remain inside the community. If the community were to take to the platform, (pandering to racers' needs was a consideration during design), the application could potentially be very viable financially.

## About Autralian Powerboat Trader

### Purpose

The primary function of the Australian Powerboat Trader application is to facilitate the sales of powerboats and their related parts, new and used. The site also features a news portal for information related to the powerboat community as a secondary function. The sales listing model takes care of business and is fully CRUD operable with an account system provided by the Devise gem. Users may buy or sell, payments can be made with Stripe, and shipping is an optional extra where users can provide their address. The Posts model is fully CRUD operable also to users with a role of editor or admin.

### Functionality/features

As stated the two functions are powerboat sales and racing news. Features include a fully authenticatable user model with their own user page. User details are fully editable through the user page. User pages also show data related to the user like their current listings and shipment information. The home or root page features a greeting and a hero image, with links to login(or log out if you're logged in), the user account page(if logged in), Racing news index, listing index and a feature for browsing by category. Each listing has a show page with the following features:

- Title of the listing
- Listing ID
- The name of the seller
- The seller's email address (encouraging communication between purchasers)
- The seller's phone number if applicable
- The shipment status of the item (whether shipping is available or not)
- If the item is available a puchase button will be displayed that links to Stripe
- If the item has been paid for the view will display "This item has SOLD" in red

